Before starting with actually setting up and configuring firebase I want to highlight how authentication
works and how it differs to a normal web page as authentication in a normal web page and with that this
is important.
I do not mean angular web app but I basically mean a normal web page where you have your back and code
and where you render some views from that code there you typically use a session based approach for
authenticating the user.
So your server and your client are connected for a session.
You could say now for a web app like a single page application related with angular or react or view.
Yes.
And for a mobile app with a different approach we still obviously have a server and a client though
declined of course is not only a browser but could also be a mobile device.
But there we don't have a strong connection between client and server.
And I think this is kind of intuitive.
If you look at it like this if you're opening the app on your mobile phone you might not even have internet
connection and even if you do have connection you might install that app with the same account on multiple
devices.
Maybe you also have a back end which is able to handle both web apps and mobile device apps.
So there really is not that strong of a connection.
Its not like a web page which is always rendered if you visit a certain domain if you are a certain
you are l.
But instead you really are flexible on how this data may be retrieved on how your service may be used.
And therefore we dont have a session based approach.
We don't want is a strong connection between server and client.
Instead we have a number approach you offend Tecate yourselves by sending the authentication data to
the server.
So for example if we enter something and you sign in component and you sign it page we enter our email
and password we sent that data to the server on the server.
We will check if we do have a user which kind of uses to state if you entered a valid password the same
we would do the session based approach.
But now we're not setting up a session and returning the session key which is stored in a cookie.
Instead we now generate a new token and this token has now returned to decline.
You can now store does tokened for example in a web app in your local storage and on each request to
a protected resource you would re send the token to the server.
And is a major difference with this.
The server does not store any information about your client in any session based approach the Server
stores the session not the client.
Here no one stores a session because there is no session.
Instead you only have a token which kind of says hey I offended good at myself with you the server a
couple of minutes ago maybe and here is the token.
You can check if its valid if it is valid.
Please give me access to whatever protected resource I'm trying to access.
This is the key difference and therefore such tokens typically also invalidate.
After a couple of minutes or hours because you kind of don't want to keep them live on forever.
Does this approach you use in single page applications and also in mobile apps.
And does the approach we will use in this app now actually firebase will make it very easy to use this
approach but it will always work like this no matter what your back and is.
So let's dive into setting up our firebase app now first or learn a bit more about how this works and
firebase and then actually implemented in our mobile app